Skip to main content
/
BYU-Idaho Academic Catalog
BYU-Idaho Academic Catalog
Academic Catalog
Search Catalog
Search Catalog
0 results available
Select Catalog

2026-2027 BYU-Idaho Catalog
President's Message
Mission and Purpose
Administration
Degrees & Certificates
Courses
Policies & Procedures
General Education
Academic Deadlines
Departments
Colleges
BYU Pathway Worldwide
Directory
About this Catalog
Addenda
Archived Catalogs
Print this page

Back
Department of Computer Science and Engineering Degrees and Certificates>Computer Science
Computer Science (Major: Bachelor-Level)
Program Description

Computer scientists tackle some of the most interesting and challenging problems of our time, including developing massive-scale applications in the cloud, highly-reliable systems, and artificial intelligence. To be a successful computer scientist, you need an excellent understanding of both programming and algorithms, so you know not only the how but also the why of computing.

The Computer Science degree gives students a broad, deep, balanced understanding of computing including cutting edge technologies and skills in preparation to work in any area of the computing industry. 

As a computer science student at BYU-Idaho, you first engage in a wide variety of experiences that help you develop core skills in programming, algorithms, and computing. Then you will explore advanced topics in machine learning and massively parallel computation. After successfully completing this program, you will be ready for a career in a variety of computing areas, including software development, data science, system analysis, or research.
Program Code
440
Program Learning Outcomes (PLOs)
Apply principles of discrete mathematics to analyze and solve problems. 
Apply principles of calculus to analyze and solve problems. 
Mathematically calculate and analyze algorithmic complexity. 
Demonstrate proficiency in multiple programming languages and paradigms. 
Apply fundamental data structures to solve problems. 
Describe and implement common algorithmic techniques. 
Apply principles of concurrent computing to solve problems. 
Design and implement object-oriented and functional software. 
Apply database design principles to solve problems. 
Demonstrate proficiency using command-line interfaces and file system navigation. 
Demonstrate proficiency in modern software deployment. 
Apply system architectural patterns to design scalable systems. 
Apply software engineering principles. 
Demonstrate understanding of software development lifecycles. 
Demonstrate the value of testing and write tests to validate code. 
Apply secure coding practices to mitigate security risks. 
Demonstrate how to act ethically, as a disciple of Jesus Christ, in the context of Computer Science. 
Demonstrate the traits of an effective team member. 
Demonstrate initiative and self-reliance in learning. 
Communicate effectively with a range of audiences. 
Gain foundational knowledge in at least two computing disciplines. 
Create innovative products that add value. 
Relate personal technical contributions to bigger picture, real-world problems. 
Program Notes

To graduate with a Bachelor's degree, a student must earn:
grades of C- or higher in major courses
a 2.0 cumulative GPA
a minimum of 120 cumulative credits
Graduation in this program does not imply or guarantee licensure or certification reciprocity or job attainment in Idaho or any other state or country.
This program offers an accelerated option. If interested, meet with your department chair and academic advisor to see if it fits your academic goals.

Program Course Requirements

General Education
39
Total Credits
Take at least 39 credit(s) to complete one of the following program(s): GE - BACH 
First Year Core
14
Total Credits
Take the following: 
CSE110 - Introduction to Programming (2)
CSE111 - Programming with Functions (2)
CSE170 - Introduction to Technical Teamwork (2)
CSE199R - Freshman Discovery Project (2)
ECEN106 - Computer Systems (2)
WDD130 - Web Fundamentals (2)
WDD131 - Dynamic Web Fundamentals (2)
Core
31
Total Credits
Take the following: 
CSE210 - Programming with Classes (2)
CSE212 - Programming with Data Structures (2)
CSE280 - Discrete Mathematics  (3)
CSE300 - Professional Readiness (1)
CSE310 - Applied Programming (3)
CSE351 - Parallelism and Concurrency (2)
CSE370 - Software Engineering Principles (2)
CSE381 - Algorithms and Complexity (3)
CSE382 - Patterns and Data Structures (3)
CSE399R - Product Development Project (2)
DS250 - Data Science Programming (2)
ITM220 - SQL (3)
ITM350 - DevOps (3)
Math
4
Total Credits
Take 1 of the following: 
MATH112X - Calculus I (4)
MATH119 - Applied Calculus for Data Analysis (4)
Advanced Topics
6
Total Credits
Take 6 credit(s) from: 
CSE450 - Machine Learning (3)
CSE481 - Massively Parallel Computation (3)
CSE455 - Developing AI Systems (3)
CSE490R - Special Topics (3)
CSE498R - Internship II (1 - 4)
DS460 - Big Data Programming and Analytics (3)
Experiential Learning
3
Total Credits
Complete 1 of the following
Option 1:
Take the following: 
CSE397 - Professional Career Project (3)
Option 2:
Students must register for 3 credits from CSE 398.
Take 3 credit(s) from: 
CSE398 - Internship (1 - 4)
Unspecified Electives
23
Total Credits
Take at least 23 credit(s) from 
any eligible university credits. 

In addition to courses meeting the requirements for this program, students can take other courses offered by the university, for which they meet the course eligibility requirements, to bring their total number of credits to the minimum of 120 credits required for graduation. Additional credits may also come from credits received through General Education courses.
Grand Total Credits: 120
Degree
Bachelor of Science (BS)
Department
Department of Computer Science and Engineering

/
Call or Text 208-496-1411

ask@byui.edu

WhatsApp

Get Help

Devotionals
Campus Map
Campus Tours
Employment
Give to BYU-Idaho
twitter
instagram
youtube
facebook
linkedin
525 S Center St
Rexburg, ID 83460
Accessibility
Technical Help
Room Scheduling
Website Feedback
Security
Privacy
Legal
Cookie Preferences
© 2025 BYU-Idaho

